Transcript: With routes there are multiple response types we can do and we'll go through a few of them. We've already done .send and .json quite a bit. .Send basically sends various responses. For example, we've already sent a message to the browser but we could also render pure HTML by coding it directly into our response. The .json basically sends a JSON response to the client ready to be consumed by front end code which we've done in our code. Let's explore a few more examples. For those examples, I'm going to do a getCall, but you can put or post or delete if you want, so, for example, if you do a put call and then you want to send it to another web page then you could do res.redirect, and basically send them to another page. You can use those response types or response methods to any of those methods for the app here. For example, let's do a get for that particular item so we can actually test it in our browser. Then what we'll do for the next one, we'll do an end. Let's basically comment this one here, and then, instead of doing a res.send, let's do a res.end. What that will do is basically end the call on its tracks, so basically end it right away. If you want to test it, let's save that, let's go back to our browser, and let's simply do item, and then, boom, nothing happens. Well, that's exactly what end does, it actually ends the call right there. That would be useful, so, for example, if you did multiple calls within a single line here, so like what we've done right here on line 18, then you could do a third one and end the whole thing or even end before there. That is very limited in use, because most of the time, you don't want to end a call to your API. But this could be useful in certain cases, so at least you know it exists. Let's go ahead and go back here. Let's comment that one again, and let's return to add a new one. Let's say you wanted to redirect, like I've just explained earlier, to another page. You could do a response.redirct, and then inside of that particular method, pass where you want to be redirected. Let's go and redirect it to, for example, linkedin, and not /com, but .com, and let's put the full address. You could redirect to that specific page once you call in that path. Let's save that. Let's go back to our browser, and let's refresh that call or just hit Return, and there you go. We're actually sent to linkedin.com. OK, so, let's go back and do another one. Let's say, for example, you want the user to be able to download something, so let's comment that one and let's add a new one. This response will be res.download. This is very similar to, so, if you've used Express in the past, and you've used or seen some code from Express, you've seen something like sendFile. Well, this is exactly the same thing, it's newer than sendFile, but it's, basically, it's more explicit, in my opinion, and semantic, so, therefore, I would use this one instead of sendFile. Let's go ahead and do this. In this case, we would do something like, OK, so let's download the file from images and download this particular file, so rocket.jpg. You know what, while we're actually doing something where we're downloading a rocket, let's also be semantic on the path. Let's be a little bit more contextual to what we're doing with this particular function. Let's go and do images and Save. Let's go back to our browser. For use item, now it's not going to work, cannot get item, yeah, that's what I'm expecting. But if we do images, now we have a download that's automatically started for us. We just downloaded the file rocket. That's the expected behavior. If we go back here, we expect to download this file. Let me show you some of the others, they're all pretty much in the same vein here. Let's go to your browser, and go to expressjs.com/en for English, /guide/routing.html, and then scroll down to Response methods, and you'll recognize some of those that we just done. Basically download, end, JSON, JSONP is basically an extension of JSON and it supports JSONP. Redirect is what we've done, render is rendering a view template in basically HTML or any of the templates that we've actually seen in early videos. Send is what we've used so far, sendFile is the equivalent of download, and sendStatus is basically giving you the status of the response, so I could give you a 404, 500, 200, so on and so forth. There are lots of options for each of these methods, so I'd suggest you explore them further when you get a chance. Basically click on any of those, so for example, if you want to see the options for JSON, just click on JSON, and then you'll see a little bit more what you can do with it. You can do multiple calls to multiple functions and then just give the JSON error message and so on, so forth. Feel free to explore these details. There's not a lot of details for each one of them. It's a very light API, in my opinion, and very easy to learn, so feel free to explore those on your own time. Let's move on.
