Transcript: If you didn't have enough functions built into Express, well there are a growing list of popular middleware available to you to add many other functions to your web server. Let me show you where you can find them and how you would use them with an example. So go to expressjs.com/en/resources/middleware.html. So once you get to this page, you'll see a list of all the middleware that Express actually promotes. So as you can see, there are tons of packages available to add functionality to your web server. So, for example, you have the compression, you have a cookie parcer, cookie sessions, cores, and a whole bunch of em. So let's say, for example, you want to do favicons in your web server. You can use the serve-favicon middleware to add a little icon to your application, like so. So if you click on serve-favicon, you'll get more details as to how to install it, what is the usage and some examples of the code and this goes on for all of the middleware that Express promotes on its site. So, for example, if we go to serve-static you see the exact same information, sessions and so on so forth. So let's go ahead and add the serve-favicon middleware to our Express applications. So let's go to VS Code and let's open a terminal and if it's open, let's make sure we are in the right directories. So ls. Right now I'm at the top level here, so I need to move into the Express app like so and I'm good to go. So the first thing we need to do is to install dash dash save serve-favicon. OK, so let's check on our package adjacent files so it's here so we're good to go there. Now we need to add a favicon to the public folder just to make sure that it works and we're actually going to load it from there, so let's go to our exercise files. In the resources, you should see a favicon.ico, click on it, command C to copy, and then go inside of our Express app, and paste it to the public folder. So command V like so. We go it. Now we need to do the code. So let's go back to VS Code and open our index.js like so and I want to do this at the top very close to all my static images and stuff here, so let's go right below this one and return and let's do this little piece of code that is from favicon. And don't worry we're going to load and import favicon in a second, but we're going to do that first. So let's do a path.join_dirname and the directory name that we want to load this from is the public folder and the file that we want load is the favicon.ico like so and let's add a semicolon. All right so we need to load two things. We need to import favicon and then the path. So let's go at the top here and return after line one. And just a little tip for your own information if you want to follow common standards in the industry, you always import the packages that you're loading like so first and then leave whatever imports there are in that specific directory in the node modules after. So, in this case, we're importing favicon from serve-favicon first and then we're also importing path from path like so. And we don't need to install path because that's part of the libraries installed with Node, so we're good to go with that. Save that and then now we're good to go. We have our favicon loading here. We have it in our public folder here. So we're good to go. Let's go ahead and start our server. So npm start and let's load our page and right now it does have it already because I've used local host 3000 to do a whole bunch of react publications but if we reload the whole thing at local host 3000, we have this favicon that's now loaded from the actual file inside of our server, so if you want to make sure you can load with control shift I for Windows and option command I for Mac. So as you can see adding extra middleware to our application is really easy. Since they're all well documented, I suggest you play with a few of them and test them.
