- `npm audit` Fix manually or use auto
- `npm update` Fix with `npm update packageName@version` a better way to do this is `npm install packageName@version`
- `npm uninstall @packageName` for any packages you do not need as there could be many deprecated dependencies in the package so only use packages that your app really need.
- babel & babelrc files - make sure that the babel preset is at environment and not es2015, that has been deprecated.
- `npm-v` to check the version, use the latest LTS version

* Protecting your account and access to your packages is crucial, especially if you publish packages to NPM and want to restrict access to them. Let me demonstrate how this works. The first thing you need to do is go to npmjs.com and login into your account.

Once you're logged in, click on your profile and then Profile Settings, and then go into Two Factor Authentication and then Modify 2FA. And what you want to do is to make sure that you have authorization, and publishing selected. Do not disable it. Whenever you are publishing new packages, or whenever you're authorizing external applications, you're gonna need a second factor code that will be either emailed, or use one of the authentication tools such as Google Authenticator, so then you need to click Submit, and now you have it set. Now, also, if you want to set up tokens, so for example, if you want to set up a token for a specific application, you can do so right here by actually creating a new token, so, for example, we would create a new token, which is Read and Publish or Read Only.

In this case, let's set up a Read Only one, so that means that it can only read from packages and not publish to it, then you can create a token, and use that read-only package, and this is how it works. Whenever you need to access your own NPM packages from external applications, you're gonna need a token, and it will ask you to create a new token, so for example, if you use Travis Enterprise accounts, and you want to access your NPM packages, then you're gonna need to create the actual token and then insert that information into a YAML file inside of the Travis project, so for example, if you want to have more information about how to use a token with, for example, Travis, you can go to docs.travis-ci.com /user/deployment/npm and you're gonna get more information about how to use NPM and their token.
