## Introduction to OWASP dependency check

OWASP Dependency Check is a tool that analyses your project's dependencies and checks for known issues. So go to: owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Dependency_Check and once you get to this page, feel free to read the introduction to what the Dependency-Check, is. Then once you're ready, click on Command Line. Quick Download, here, so you can download the actual file, that we'll need. So go ahead and do that. So depending on the type of project you're developing, or a type of program you would like to use to do so, take a look at the different options to install and check your dependencies. However, for the sake of our node.js project, we'll use it with zip file we just downloaded. So let me demonstrate, so once the file has been downloaded, let's go to our Downloads folder here and extract the zip file. And then, let's go to the bin here, and let's make sure that we select the dependency-check.sh. So what I'm gonna do to make this very quick, I'm going to right-click and copy dependency-check.sh. The reason why I'm gonna do that is because I'm going to paste it into a terminal and therefore get the path of that particular file. So what I'm gonna do now is open a Terminal, so if you don't have one Terminal Shell open, go ahead and open one. And what I'm gonna do is Command-V, to basically paste what I just copied. Once I have that, I can start using the command of the Dependency-Check. So, how you go about to check your dependencies, you do, --project and then you need to give a name to your project. So, let's do test dependencies node. Perfect! And then what you need to do, is do a --scan and what is the folder you need to scan? So we're gonna do a copy-and-paste again. So let's go and grab the actual folder that we need to check which is the base project here. And we're going to right-click, Copy base and then go back into our terminal, and simply paste, where we want to have it scanned. Also, if you don't have a Java runtime installed on your system, it may actually ask you to install that. So if you if you don't have that, take the time to install it and do the command again. But once you have Java runtime installed, you can go ahead and hit Return. And it will go ahead and start your check. So once the analysis is complete, let's close our terminal here, Okay then you wanna go to this site, here, so: jeremylong.github.io/DependencyCheck/general/thereport so you should find basically a report inside of the Dependency folder. And in that report, you're going to see a whole bunch of things. In our case this year, we don't have any issues therefore the report didn't show. So, what we're going to take a look at, here, is the type of information you should find in the report. And what you wanna look for, in the actual report, is the Evidence Count and the CPE Confidence. So those two together will show you if there's any issues with your particular dependencies. But if there are any dependencies that are an issue, they will be listed. Once you find those dependencies that are an issue, then you wanna make sure to understand why, and also take a look at the dependency itself.

## Penetration testing with Burp

Burp is another testing tool similar to Snake, but with its paid version, goes into much more details and scans for many other issues not covered in a basic plan like Snake offers. So go to portswigger.net/burp. What differentiates Burp to Snake is the amount of options and types of scan you can set up and automate. You can even specify the specific paths you'd like scanned and for what exactly. Once set up, Burp's automated scans can save you a lot of time of researching, or going through reports since you've specified exactly what you wanted to scan. Although the paid version is a bit hefty, if you're looking for this type of granularity, Burp can be a strong tool in your shed, but if you're looking for more automated reports, and are already a heavy user of GitHub repos, then Snake might make more sense for you. Take a look at all the tools that we've explored in this course, and you have a really good set of tools that you can use to evaluate your projects, your dependencies, and so on, so forth.

## Find vulnerabilities with Snyk

Snyk is a great service to provide a first line of defense and to determine if any of your projects are at stake. Its great documentation offers advice on how to remediate any issues you may have in your code and what type of attacks could impact your project, so let me demonstrate. So, go to snyk.io and once you get to the site either sign up as a DevOps, Enterprise, let's just close that here and what I'm gonna do is use it for developers here. The fastest way to actually set it up is with GitHub, so if you have any repos you'd like Snyk to actually evaluate for any issues, you can get a quick start with GitHub. You could also set it up with your CI tool such as Travis, Jenkins and so on and so forth and that's for the DevOps side of things but it works very, very similar. So, let's go ahead and do a quick start with GitHub, so let's sign up here. And once you're logged in, so if you haven't seen an actual screen to log in, go ahead and log into GitHub. Once you're here, you can actually test or actually ask it which repos you want to check, so in this case, these are all my public repos. I'm gonna hit All and add nine selected repositories to Snyk and let's go ahead and do that. And then all my repos are actually added in there. So, what it's gonna do is import the projects and then evaluate if there's any issues. And as you can see there's a few where I need to check the packages inside of my actual repos. So, let's go to the dashboard and you can get an overview of the security status of all your repos, so if there's any big issues that you should take a look at immediately, they gonna be here. If you want to take a look at the ones that have medium severity security issues, then you can take a look at here or here. So, in this case, let's say, for example, I wanna take a look at these, then let's go back to the projects here and let's take a look at, for example, the frontend-patterns and this seems to have a low and one medium issue, so let's go, and view the report and fix. And this is the beauty of Snyk. It gives you the actual issues and what potential security issues there could be in that particular project. So, in that particular project here, I could be prone to get some regular expression denial of service, so this is an issue that we've actually discussed in this course, so I need to make sure that the dependency in question which is ua-parser-js is actually up to date or I could remove that package out of my project. So, again this is a very high-level tool that can give you a first line of defense where you can actually take a look at all your packages, all your repos and make sure you actually fixed based on the recommendations in Snyk. So, I always recommend to set it up first here and then once you have that set up, you can take a look at the other tools that we've explored in this course.
