Transcript:

So, we have some data to play with in our application. I want to show you a neat website I use, from time to time, to generate mock JSON data for me. And then, we'll load this data into our server. So, go to www.mockaroo.com, and once you get to this website you'll, basically, see how easy it is to create mock data. So, basically, what you need to do is, basically, create the fields that you want in your mock data. So, for example, in this one, we have an id, so, you always need an id. First Name, Last Name, Email, Gender, and a IP Address. I don't need the IP Address, I'm going to remove that. So, if you want any other mock data inside of your JSON data, you can actually add other fields. I'm going to keep it as is. And, 1000 rows is a little bit too much, 'cause we're going to load these in our server, so I'm going to do, like, 50, that's pretty much what I want. And then, switch this to JSON. And then, Download Data. So, we have a mock data JASON file that has been downloaded for us, so let's close that. Again, so, feel free to use that whenever you need to create mock data for your projects. This is a good way to get a feel of your application as you build, and get some data premade for you, as opposed to type it all. Alright, so let's close this. And, let me grab it from my Downloads. So, let's create a new Downloads, and let's go and grab that file, here, let's remove it. And, I'm going to change the name, quickly, to data, like so. Open my express-app, create a folder. So, right-click, New Folder, data, and drag and drop that particular JSON file that we just got, here, like so. Now, we got our data. Alright, so close this. Now, let's load it and, basically, console.log the data inside of our server. So, let's go ahead and go back to VS Code, and inside of our index file, basically, import your data from where it is, so we need to, basically, go inside of data, and then load the data.json file, like so. And, basically, what we'll do, for now, is create a full function, so you need to open your curly brace, here, and close it at line nine. So, we now have a full function. So, let's put a semicolon, here. And then, also load those files, so let's do a console.log, and let's do data. So, right now, we'll be able to load our data. Before you save your file, just, basically, increase your terminal view, so you can see everything that we've actually just done. And, now save, and you'll see your data load, here, as soon as it restarts. So, if you take a look, we have our console.log, here, the first one, and then we have the data that we just loaded. So, we have all the fake data that we created, so ids, and so on and so forth, like so. Two things to note: One, when you create an array, it's always better to have your ids start at zero. And, this one starts at one, so. So, once we start calling into specific items in our array, please be aware that if we call, for example, one, it's not going to call this one. It's going to call the number two, here, and so on and so forth. So, that's a little thing that we need to note, and I wanted to make sure that you understood that from the start, so if you call one, and you're not seeing Crystie, do not panic. If you see Pierre, then you're good. The second thing to note: Why is it loading this in our console.log, here, and not on the browsers? If we open the browser, here, so let's go ahead and open a new window, and load our application, so localhost 3000, and we cannot GET, that's normal, that's OK, we don't have any GET methods, yet. Let's open our DevTools, so opt + cmd + I on Mac. Once you get that, you'll see that in the Console, that's OK, load the font, no worries about that, but we don't have our data, here, why is that? Well, if you take a look at where you actually do the console.log, this is in the server. So, all these commands are in the server, they're not on the front end. So, you're going to get that information on the server, here. So, whatever you do on the server, you will get in this console.log. Whatever you do on the front end, so when you start doing front views, and you're doing console.logs, then it will show on your client, on your front end, not on the back end. So, that's something you need to note, and something important to understand in between the front end and the back end, or the server and the client. So, we have some data loaded into our application. Let's move on.
