Transcript: Being able to return data from a database or data loaded into our server is just about every server's purpose. Let's work on something like this. So go back to S code and then open the index.js and then let's go in the app.get meta. So right now what we're doing is basically calling on to this path, and whenever we call on to this path, we are responding with a get request blah, blah, blah. So we want to change this. Let's change this with an actual response with data. And the way you do this, and let me just delete that, so delete line number 8, and the way you do this is very, very simple. So if we had a Mongo database or SQL database that's connected to the server, what we would do first is basically call on to that server and get the data, so like we've done here. We've imported the data, but let's say, for example, we had a Mongo DB connected. We would need to get the data first, and return it, and then send it to our client. So, we would do something like so: So response JSON and then path whatever is the data that you return earlier. So in this case, we are returning the data that we already have in our server here, but let's say for example we had a connection to a Mongo, then we would do whatever we need to get the data first, and then respond it with the data. So usually what we would do when we have external APIs or servers or data involved, what we would do is basically do an if statement with a response with an error statement on it where if not successful, then do this. If successful, then respond with the JSON data. And actually, I'm going through this exercise on my other course where I do Node, Express and APIs, and you can take a look at that if you want to take a look at how we connect the Mongo DB and how do we return the data and how we actually, what we do with it after. So in this case we'll simply respond the JSON data that we have loaded here. So let's go ahead and save that. This is as simple as it gets. Like so. And then let's go to Postman this time, and we can do this directly inside of our browser, but let's use Postman for testing this. And let's go and change the actual URL, because it's the main path, so this will do. Or you can do this. It's the same. And then make sure you get the get command, like so. And then send this request, and we get the response of JSON data, like so. So now our data is actually on the front end, because we've actually sent it as JSON data to the front end. So let's go quickly in the brower and do the same. So let's go and bring our browser back. And we can close now the download stuff. Forget Postman, and just refresh this, and here you go. You get the data that we actually sent from the servers. Now it's on the front end. So now we could do anything we want with it. So we could actually render a React or Angular page or template with this data, and do something beautiful with it. So, again, the source of your data doesn't matter. If we get data from any source, Mongo DB, Redis, SQL, GraphQL, in the cloud, or any other type of data source, this is where you would return it to the client and then available to be rendered by a front end or views. This is something we go in depth in my Node, Express, APIs, if you're curious. Let's move on.
