Transcript: If you're not familiar with the word proxy, it's basically another server that pushes endpoint calls or traffic to your application. There are multiple use cases for proxies, but if you ever find yourself in the situation where you have a proxy pushing traffic to your application, I'd like to show you what options you have and how to set it up in Express. So first, let me show you a few things. So go to Express js dot com forward slash en forward slash guide forward slash behind dash proxies dot html. And once you get to this page, basically this is the documentation for setting up Express behind proxies. So you can also get to that page by going to the Expressjs.com, and then click on guide, and then Express behind proxies. So the one thing that I want to show you, setting up proxies in Express is easy. So all you have to do is set up this single line with some options and arguments inside of that method, and off you go. But there are more factors when you set up proxies. There's security concerns. You have to kind of get the lay of the land with all the stuff that you need to set when you do proxies. So it's way above and beyond the conversation that we're going to have in this video, but this is how you set it, and if you decide to use proxies for one reason or another, please make sure to review security courses on Node and Express and make sure that you have all your ducks in a row. So this is how you would set it. So what you do is pass in the set method a trust proxy argument, and then whatever options you want to choose. So the options are here, so I want to use this range of IP addresses. You basically use loop back, link local for these, and unique local for these. And then you pass that argument here, and you can also specify what you want to use as an IP address if you want to use something specific for your proxies. You can also use multiple sets of IP addresses if you want, but in this case, all you need to make sure that if you use all these IP addresses, are they secure? So you need to think about security when you use proxies. So let's go ahead and set this up in our application. So let's go to vs code, and let's stop our server from debugging. So control C, and let's clear that up, then do an npm start. And let's close this for now. So in index dot js, basically let's do it just below the URL encoded. So let's do this here. So return on line 14, and then let's do a quick comment. This is for proxies. And basically like we've saw in the documentation, you need to do app dot set, and then do the argument trust proxy, and then pass whatever range of addresses you want. In my case, I'm going to do loop back and then semicolon. Save this. Let's make sure our server's running properly. So let's go back to integrated terminal in view. Everything is running fine. And basically, we have set a proxy. So like I said, there are more items to consider when setting proxies with Express and would be way beyond the scope of this course. So if you are in this situation where you need to use them, go through all the documentation on this subject and security best practices to handle this properly.

SECURITY;

- Security is always a concern with any applications, web or local, so understanding best practices around security is crucial. If you want to learn more about securing your Express application, take a look at my Securing APIs course or any other security courses in our library. So let's go through some of the best practices when you are building a Node and Express application. So first, always keep your dependencies up-to-date and make sure they are secured. The best approach is to follow official list promoted by the Express team itself or internal ones, if the same functions are provided internally. Also, if any of them are deprecated, remove them and/or find options. If you're using sensitive data use TLS, which is the next progression of SSL. You can get a free TLS certificate through services like Let's Encrypt and, depending on where you host your services, they will have documentation on how to install your certificate. Use Helmet, which is a very simple library to install and adds a collection of middleware that secures further HTTP headers. The ease of installing this library could save you headaches down the road, so please do install it. Using cookies securely is a must but also a subject that needs more exploration on your part. The gist of it is, as a base, use the Express session middleware when you want to manage cookies in your application. And if your application grows, consider reading more on the subject to make sure you use the right techniques to keep them secure. Take a look at the following links to make absolutely certain you're fully aware of the latest security issues and techniques regarding Node.js, the base behind the Express server.

SOCKET.IO: Have you ever wanted to build an application with real-time messaging or similar real-time web applications? Take a look at the socket.io library, which uses an event-based approach for syncing and transmitting data in real-time. So go to this link, socket.io, and once you're there, you're actually going to see, let me just refresh my page. You're going to see some examples of the code and what it actually does in your browser. And basically socket.io is an event-based system that actually uses events and then subscribes to these events. So whenever someone, so let's say, for example, types a message in a chat room, then everybody that is in that chat room is actually noticed and updated with that information. There are a whole bunch of demos on the website, so if you take a look at the demo section, you can take a look at the chat here and actually type your name, so in my case, manny, and then enter, and there's actual people in that room and you can actually type something. Hello. You're live. Not love, but live. And so on and so forth. There's also a whiteboard, and you can actually do whiteboard on it. So if you click on the colors, then you can actually click and draw stuff, and there could be other people drawing stuff at the same time with you in that board. So these are the kind of things that you can build with socket.io. And the cool thing is I actually have a course on the subject, so if that sort of project interests you, take a look at that course in the library. So let's move on.
