DEBUGGING: So, if the word debugging makes you run for the fences, you'll be happy to know that setting up debugging in Express is very easy. Then, the information you get is crucial to help you figure out what's happening with your application as the routes are called. Let me demonstrate. So, go back to VS Code. Click on View, Integrated Terminal. And then let's shut down our server here by doing Control + C. And let me show you the way you do debugging, and then I'm going to show you the Windows way of doing it. So, let's clear that up, so let's clear our terminal here. The way you do debugging with an Express application inside of a Mac, or Linux, is this way. So, you do debug equals express, colon, star and then node index.js or whatever is the file that you have that starts your server. So that would start it for a Mac or a Linux operating system. So, if you want to do it for Windows, basically what you change is at the beginning of your command, you add set and then basically where you have the star here you add an ampersand, like so. And that would start your debugging. But, there is a better way to do this. So this is simple enough, but what if you'd like to continue using simple NPM commands and get it started with a simple NPM run debug. Let's set this up in our package-lock.json file. So, basically, let's remove that in our command here, and go inside of the s code. Let's just remove all this, like so. And let me bring that down so we can see our code. So go to package.json and then go all the way up where your script is and then let's add another one. Let's do a comma. And then do debug, colon, and then what we'll need to do, because you're starting your debugging session but you're also want to make sure that you're starting your server the same way that you're starting it now because otherwise it's not going to compile your ES6 code. So you want to make sure that you're using nodemon, like we've used it before, so basically what I was doing here is, starting your server with debug but using the node command, but we're using nodemon because we want our server to restart automatically. So, what we're going to do is basically, copy all this, so command C. And paste it again in here and simply add at the beginning of that script, debug, equals, express, so basically what we've done, colon, star, and space, and then the rest of the script stays the same. So, if you're on Windows, so this is for Mac and Linux, if you're on Windows, basically you add what I've shown you before. You add the set and then you do the ampersand after the star like so, and that will start your server and set it to a debugging session. So, because I'm on the Mac, I will remove those, and save my package.json files, so make sure you save before you do anything else. And now, we can start our server in debugging session by doing npm, run, debug, like so. So it's going to do everything that we've done, and run it in debug. And let's take a look at our debugging session. So it starts here, let me remove the data here that's actually being confusing with the debugging session so we don't have that. So let's go back to our index.js. And let's go where our server starts. And remove the console.log(data) here. And save that so basically remove line 74 inside of your index.js file. Save that. Now we'll restart and now we're in full debug session, so let's increase the screen for that and let's take a look. So right now we're in full debug session, it gives us all the information that we need about our server. So right now it tells us that these things are being called in, the route is being called in, these are created and so and so forth. So if we go to our browser, and call in localhost3000, we get this and we also get reports here. So your server is running and then dispatching GET, for query on the forward slash, and then everything that's happening here, we get reports on that. If we go to another page, let's say for example, we get item, we get an error and we get also, the same thing here. Not only we get what express is doing in the background, but we're also getting the error. So with these simple commands you can get started on debugging your application. There's a few more things you can do with the debug API, so feel free to take a look at the documentation of the subject, so let's move on.
