Transcript: We already briefly introduced methods used for doing specific actions on your web server such as using get, post, put, and delete. Along with these methods, you can specify the path to which these methods can be performed. Like our own path, forward slash, which is our home path and our new item for the post method. So these paths could be anything you want for your clients to call into, but what about parameters. What are they and how would they be used? So let's say for example, you have a Mongo collection containing users and you need to pull a specific user that you'd like to render on a page along with its details. What about if you had a collection of movies like Netflix and would like to pull the details for a specific movie? This is where parameters come handy. And they are very simple. Let me demonstrate. Go back into VS Code and inside of the index.js file. What we'll do is use the get method to create a new path. So let's go ahead and just return on line 16 here and do app, dot, get... and this is a method, again. And the path that was specified is item. So we'll leverage the item path, forward slash, and we want to call into a specific item. So the way you do this is by doing colon and then whatever parameter you want to pass this specific item. So in this case, we'll pass the id and then return whichever id we have in our list. That's why I mentioned earlier that if we ask for id one, we actually get zero and so on so forth. So what we need to do is basically right after the id, put a comma and before the closing of our parameters, and then pass the request, response. And then basically run a function. Let's do the curly braces this time because we'll run a few thing in there. So the first thing I want to do is basically console log the params that I just passed. Just to make sure that I get what I want. Let's go ahead and do that, console log. You get the params by basically calling onto the request params and in this case the id that we'll pass. Then what we'll do is create a user. So we'll create a user variable. Then convert the string from the params that we just passed. So let me just finish this and I'll explain what I mean by that. So let's go in basically put the exact same thing I was just did in the console log. Right now, when we pass the id here, even though we're passing a number, it will take it as a string. So basically this method will basically use everything and consider it a string. So right now if we pass this to a MongoDB and we're trying to pull a specific id, it's not going to work because we've basically passed a string. So what we need to do is convert that particular string into a number and this is why I've used Number here to transform the, basically, the string that we got here and turn it into a number, like so. Then once we have that, let's console log again so you guys can see what's happening. So we'll console log our user. And then we'll even console log what we'll do next. What I'm going to do next is basically into our data. So right now we have data that we loaded. So let's go take and take at our data. If you click on data and then data.json, you'll see that we have items here. What I want to do is get inside of that particular JSON file and then return the one item that we've requested here. The way we're going to do this is basically by doing inside of the data. So right now we have the data that's available to us. And it has an array. So if we take a look back again at the data. This is an array which contains a whole bunch of objects. What we need to do is basically pull... a user... from it. The number that we've converted here inside of the user variable, will be used to pull a specific user here, like so. Then what we could do is do the same for response. So we'll respond and send that to our browser or our client with the same thing. Like so. Kay? So let's save that and test this. Let's go back to our browser. What we need to do is do first of all, item. So the construct of that URL call is item forward slash, and then the number of that item. Let's go and call 04 for example. We got five because, again, like I said, the array starts at zero so therefore, number four is the fifth item inside of our JSON data. This is Josie. Let's go and take a look inside of our code just to make sure that it is in fact Josie. And yeah, it is. Basically, let me recap. One thing that we could check as well is the terminal. So let's go and take a look at View, Integrated Terminal and you'll see what I've requested here. So I've done a couple of console log calls which you can remove after if you want. I've called in the params that I've passed. So I've passed 04 so right now it's not a number, it's basically a string. Then we've converted that number to a string inside of that variable user. Now it is number four so once we actually console logging that user variable, it is now a number. And then we are console logging the command that we actually are using then to send data to our client. Therefore, we are returning this object here. That's pretty much it. If you want to remove the console logs if you want, feel free to do so. It's not going to impact this in any way. Your function is still going to work and return the right data, but I always keep console logs when I'm developing my applications. When and if something is wrong, I can always go back with the console logs and see where it went wrong. Cause if I didn't have, for example, this command here. I simply used the req dot params dot id in here, I wouldn't get anything, so at that point, I would be like, why is that so and then I would probably just console log data. and then in between the array, pass that value here. Then it would tell me, well this is what you've got, but this is a string. This is why you need to convert it to number first before you actually pass it inside of that array and get the right data. So the next thing I want to tell you and basically mention here is that you can pass multiple parameters here. Let's say for example you had an item, but then within that item, you didn't have an id, you had a category of people. Let's say for example, you had categories for your items or people. So for example, students or kids or adults. Then you would pass that category there. Then you could also then pass an id. We're not going to be able to test this because we don't have any categories in our data, but if that was the case, we could do that and then we would simply, in the browser, pass a param here and then, oops, make sure you put the colons here on every params you want to pass. Then pass the id of that user inside of that category and then you would get something returned to you. You can do multiple params in a single path. There's no limit to how many you can do depending on what your needs are. If you have JSON data here that is organized by specific subcategories, then you can actually pass the subcategory as a parameter in your path. Then call into that category and then call in within that category exactly what you need. All through that path building here. Let's remove the categories so we're back to what we were. Then save. And we are good to go. So as you can see, adding params to your route is as easy as making a pie, so let's move on.
