Transcript:
The bread and butter of any applications are routes. If you've never heard of routes, or know what they are, think of anytime you click on a link. Or any time you ask for data. A route is responsible to provide you with the page. Or data that you requested. Most of the routes are usually coded with one of four methods, such as get, post, put or delete. It follows a pattern of request and response. The request is the link you requested along with the method. And then the response provides you with the appropriate data, page or files. The handler is basically the block of code that runs once the route is called, and before it gives a response. Let me demonstrate. Let's go back to VS Code. And let's create a first route. Remember when we actually asked for localhost.3000? The default command is get. And it could not 'get' because there wasn't any routes specified for this one. So let's go ahead and do that one. Let's go and return on line five. And then let's do uh app dot get. This is how you actually do the syntax for the methods. You first call the app. So app. And then you use the method that you want. And this method takes a few things. First it takes the actual path of that command. And then you pass the argument's request and response. And then you run the handler. So basically the code that you want to run before we actually do the response. In this case we're going to do the response right away. Let's do a response. And we'll do template strings again. A get request with forward slash route on port. I'm being very explicit as to what the request is from which route. So you guys get a good feeling of what these are. And then let's pass the port. Okay. So let's save that. Test it in our browser. Let's go back here. And refresh. And then we get a get request with route on port 3000. So we get the response that we need. Okay so let's go back here. And continue. We can do pretty much the same thing for all the other ones. We can do a post. Let's go and copy and paste. We can do a post. Basically 'post' is to post things to the server. If you take a look at what 'get' is, 'get' is getting data. And then it responds with the data. 'Post' is actually sending data to the server. If we had for example a database connected to our server, then we could do a whole bunch of commands here. And then respond with a success or the actual data, or whatever you need in this post command to be in your handler. In this case we'll simply post request with route. And let's change the route for the post. Let's change it to new item. And then let's make sure it does the same here in new item. Route on port 3000. And let's do also a put. The 'put' is basically an update. Basically if you have something that you already have in your system, and you want to update it, you can do so with this particular manner. We'll go in more details about how to do so. But for now let's just change the path to item. And response, request, response. And then we'll change the send command here to a put request with item route on port 3000. Mm-kay. And the last one is delete. Let's go ahead and copy 15 through 17. Paste it. So command V. And then do a delete. You probably guessed that 'delete' is to delete data. Once you have data in your system, and you want to delete it, the delete command here is the way to do so. You ask for this command. Then you do whatever you need to do with Mungo, SQL or your local data. And then you respond with something. You can respond with a simple message. Or you can respond with the data updated after the fact. Okay? Let's do a delete request with item route on port 3000. We've created simple routes here. We have our get. To get data. We have our post. To add data. We have our put. To update data. And we have our delete. To remove data. So how would you be able to test each one? We'll do this next.
