Not Structured Query Language - NoSQL

What is a Structured Query Language?
SQL dbs are used when data is stored in a structured format. Object classes, which represent the items that will go into those structured tables, must also be designed. It can be considered like an automatic car where a lot of design work is pre-built. This can be costly, but on the pro-side easier to use.

What is NoSQL
NoSQL, on the other hand, is the absence of that structure. It is more like a manual car where data is put into collections without paying much attention to the structure. As a result, there's less up-front design work - you configure the db more to your own needs than to a pre-fab structure. Again there are pros and cons to both datamodesl.

MongoDb:

1. Create a MongodB user name and password to use the Mongo cloud
2. Go to project, create new project, give project a name, check project owner and click set-up project
3. Prompt to set up cluster choose free shared cluster - clusters are groups of servers that store your data.
4. Choose geographic region for the cluster

whitelist IP address
create user name
auto-generate a password
choose a connection method - local db or cloud-based db
Get a connection string or URI - mongodb+srv://user-name:<password>@cluster0-ox7di.mongodb.net/test?retryWrites=true&w=majority]
set up ORM mongoose to connect Express server to mongoDb cloud
Manually test the db is connected
mongoose.connect(
'mongodb+srv://user-name:<auto-generated-password-pasted-here>@cluster0-ox7di.mongodb.net/test?retryWrites=true&w=majority',
{
useNewUrlParser: true,
useCreateIndex: true,
useUnifiedTopology: true
},
(error) => {
if (!error) {
console.log('mongo-db connection working');
} else {
console.log('check mongo-db connection');
}
}
);
mongoose.Promise = global.Promise;
Check that files are not included
To stop tracking a file that is currently tracked, use git rm --cached set up .env files and ensure they are in gitignore files [ https://help.github.com/en/github/using-git/ignoring-files] / [https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore] username:password - remove <> which are placeholders
require('dotenv/config');

        mongoose.connect(
    'process.env.DB_CONNECTION',
    {
    	useNewUrlParser: true,
    	useCreateIndex: true,
    	useUnifiedTopology: true
    },
    () => {
    	console.log('connected to mongoDb');
    }

);
