Transcript: What are route handlers? They are basically the block of code that happens inside of your route. So in a way we've been doing route handling since we've started this course. So let me demonstrate. Let me go inside of the s code, and then open again, and let's just turn, shut down the terminal and go inside of index. Basically any code that we've been doing inside of a route call, so get on the path forward slash, this is a route handler. This is also a route handler and so on and so forth, so every piece of code inside of the route is a route handler. So basically, this is the piece of code that handles what that route should be doing. But in Express there is a neat function we can use to handle multiple functions, or handlers, within a single route call. This function, called next, will also do multiple callbacks. Let me demonstrate at the same time refactor our get call we've just done previously. Go back to index.js and we'll basically refactor this particular function here a little bit. So the first thing I'm going to do is basically at the end of our closing brace, basically put a comma and then return. Basically this is where our second function is going to start. Let's go and do request, response, and then let's just do a single function. And then what we'll do in this one is do a console log and basically do "Did you get the right data?" And basically this is all going to go through once we call in this particular function. This is all going to happen, but then this would break. The only thing that's missing here is the function next. So we need to pass next in the params here, like so. Then use that function inside. So after you did the response here, do a next, like so. So what's going to happen here once we call this particular path and pass the actual id? It's going to do the exact same thing that it's done before and it's going to go through all this and then once it hits the end of that block of code it's going to call next and then basically next is going to jump into the second function and then you can do this. Next could actually be done multiple times. You could do three or four nexts within the same call. This allows to create your own middleware to do anything you'd like to do before or after. You could repeat that multiple times. So you could have for example, five, or three, or whatever different functions or different things that you're doing. But please beware you can only do one response method for a single call. So you can only respond once to the client within a single get, or put, or post in this path. So now let's save this and go ahead and test. And that response is going to be in our terminal. So let's go ahead and click on View Integrated Terminal and it's going to be here. So it's going to go through all these console logs, which are going to be here as well, and then the last one's going to be "Did you get the right data?" is going to be on our server and not the client. So let's go ahead and do the call. And let's change four to nine. Let's do zero-nine. Call this guy. So we got the response here, so we got number ten. This is fine. Then let's go back to, then let's go back to the s code and then you see all the console logs that we expect and finally "Did you get the right data?" Went through all this, then next was called, then next jumped into the second function and then this console log. So this is how it works and you can pretty much do as many calls as you want with next. So let's move on.
